Hello.
Welcome to the HIToolbox
State of the Union session.
My name is Guy Fullerton.
As they said, I'm the manager of the
high-level toolbox team,
and I'll be joined a little
bit later on by Eric Schlegel,
one of our engineers that I'm sure
you've seen over email a bunch.
So the reason I'm up here first is I want
to talk a little bit about the future
of Carbon UI programming on Mac OS X,
specifically the HIToolbox APIs.
In short,
the future of the HIToolbox is Cocoa,
integration.
We are adding a lot of features
to Leopard to make HIToolbox
and the Carbon interface
layers play well with Cocoa.
Our plan is to put no new large-scale
HIToolbox features in place where
those features already exist in Cocoa.
What we want Carbon developers to do
is start using the various Cocoa views
in their Carbon applications,
start using the various Cocoa windows
and so on.
So my team is focusing most of
our energy on doing things like
64-bit resolution independence,
but also on putting bridging
technologies in place so that
you can use these awesome
Cocoa features in your Carbon apps.
The most important detail is that we're
not putting C wrapper APIs out there.
You have to use Objective-C to
get at this functionality.
We're not going to be in the
business of wrapping these
APIs and having to maintain them.
It's also important to note
that we're not completely
stopping development on Toolbox.
We're not deprecating it.
We will put features in
place where they make sense.
We will continue to put bridges in place.
We will fix bugs where we need to.
And where we already have a view in
HiToolbox that Cocoa has a view for,
and where our view lags a
little bit behind that view,
we'll probably put those
mini features in place.
A great example of this
would be the segmented view.
The Cocoa segmented view
supports menus in a segment.
The Carbon one does not.
That's something we would
enhance in the Toolbox.
So there's a lot of great reasons
to do the Cocoa integration.
The main reason is a user level reason.
Every time we have parallel
implementations of a feature,
we get details wrong here and there.
The different implementations
have different sets of bugs.
Sometimes their features work a little
bit differently or react a little
bit differently to user interaction,
and that's a big pain, right?
It's a pain as a user because you're used
to using a control that works one way,
you go into another app and it
doesn't quite work the same way.
Worse yet, you've got something like
Navigation Services in
Carbon and NSOpenSave in Cocoa,
and there are some fairly glaring
behavioral differences between those two,
which makes navigating around
the system just a pain.
So the other benefit of pushing
Cocoa integration is to improve your
applications and improve the experience
for all users that use your applications.
Clearly, by allowing Cocoa integration,
your apps can now offer all of
this cool Cocoa value to users.
You can take advantage
of all these features the
Cocoa teams have been adding.
But more importantly,
we now reduce the number of engineers
that we have working on parallel
features between the two stacks.
And we can spend those engineering
resources doing other cool
things in one place that your
application can get for free.
And I'll talk a little bit more
about some specifics very soon.
To find out about using
Cocoa in Carbon applications,
there are a couple points
you need to realize,
a couple basic things you need
to do in your applications.
We're going to cover this in
more detail in a particular
session later in the week.
But essentially you need to make
sure that the NS application
is instantiated properly.
You need to set up an auto-release
pool in certain situations,
and in very rare but
well-defined situations,
you need to set up an
NS graphics context.
Sometimes the graphics context
will get set up implicitly
based on what you're doing.
But we talk about that
more in another session.
So the first big way we are pushing
Cocoa integration in the Leper Toolbox
is by what we call the HICocoa view.
The HICoco view is an HIView.
It's a Carbon HIView that allows
you to embed basically any
NSView into your Carbon hierarchy.
We've done this a little bit
before with the HiWebView,
but the HiWebView really
wasn't good enough.
It was a standalone view that
sort of wrapped the WebKit view,
but it wasn't very good.
Well, the HICoco view is tied directly
to the Carbon and Cocoa frameworks.
We're making changes to both frameworks
to make them play well together,
and the Cocoa view is that bridge.
It's important to note that the
CocoaView supports compositing windows.
We might support non-compositing windows.
It's not currently a goal.
Supporting non-compositing is
often asked for by developers,
but we're pushing so much technology
out at you this year that requires you
to get off of non-compositing mode that
I'm not sure I really want to support
non-compositing mode in the HICocoaView.
For example, 64-bit, no compositing mode.
Resolution independence,
no compositing mode.
So we really would love to avoid
having to support compositing
mode in the HICocoaView.
So let me show you the Hikoku
view in action and give you
an idea of what it can do.
Can we switch over to the demo machine?
Okay,
so this is one of our test applications
that we are using on Leopard to test
the implementation of the HICocoView.
Let's go ahead and run this.
And any day now.
Sorry, I should have built it in advance.
So what you get is a Carbon composited
window with a bunch of Carbon controls
in it that allow you to choose and
manipulate various Cocoa views.
So there is an HICoco view up here in
the top left-hand corner of the window,
and I put it into editing mode so I can
actually change the HICoco view size.
And that will become useful
as I choose different views.
So I've got this HICoco
view in the window,
and I'm going to tell it to embed a
Cocoa push button in the HICoco view.
Now you have a Cocoa push
button in the window.
That's a real live Cocoa push
button reacting with COCO's event
handling logic and so forth.
There's a little bit of a
bridge layer with our HIView,
but it's basically working.
And of course, you can do various
other sorts of controls,
the basic controls.
But most importantly,
you can do controls that
we don't have in Carbon.
We have a token field editor in Cocoa.
We don't have one in Carbon.
We had a feature saying we should
implement a token field editor in Carbon,
but what we found is that the
token field editor for Cocoa just
works in our HICoco view.
So that's how we're going to give
Carbon developers a token field.
You're going to adopt the Cocoa one.
You can also, let's see,
You can throw a web view into a
Carbon window and it's a fully functional
web view that works better than the
[Transcript missing]
QtKit is the only way to get
QuickTime content in 64-bit.
There is no Carbon-based movie control.
The old Carbon-based QuickTime APIs that
can draw a movie into a port don't exist.
So the only way you can get
QuickTime content in a 64-bit
Carbon app is by using the QtMovie view,
and HICocoView facilitates that.
So I've got...
A movie playing in the Qt
movie view sitting inside a
Carbon window and it just works.
And the audio works too,
we just haven't turned it
on on the demo machine.
Let's see what else is we're showing.
That's probably about it.
Okay, so let's go back to slides.
So you can see that this works.
There are a few rough edges,
but we're going to make sure
all those rough edges are sanded
off by the time we ship Leopard.
We want this to be basically
a perfect experience.
So can we switch back to slides?
So the CocoaView is
really easy to deal with.
It's just an HIView.
If you're used to using HIViews,
you're going to be used
to using the HICocoaView.
We've got a creation API,
and we've got a way for you to
get and set the NSView associated
with that CocoaView.
So there's a little bit of a
terminology strangeness here.
When I refer to the CocoaView,
I'm talking about the HICocoaView,
the Carbon view that wraps an NSView.
And other times I'll be
referring to an NSView,
which is the actual AppKit-based view.
So once you have an HICocoView,
if you need to manipulate various
pieces of state on the NSView at wraps,
it's generally best to use the
HIView and call various APIs on
it to set things like activation,
visibility, and bounds, and so forth.
And the HICocoView automatically
propagates those changes to
the NSView as appropriate.
If you need to actually deal with
the NSViews specific functionality,
you'll have to use the
Objective-C APIs with that
NSViews API set as appropriate.
In order to create an HICocoView in
IB in the leopard seed,
you need to drag out a custom
HIView and set its HIView ID.
And once you do that at runtime,
you can load your NSView into it.
We want to expand the IB support
by the time Leopard ships,
but this is as far as
we've gotten in the seed,
so just be aware of that.
Our initial goal for the HICocoView was
to support three or four different views.
Specifically,
we wanted a replacement for the
HiWebView because it wasn't very good.
We wanted to support the PDFView,
we knew we needed to
support the QTMovieView,
and we knew we wanted the token field.
And so that's what we were
basing our engineering around,
is making these four
views work rock solid.
So as we were doing our work,
we found that, wow, look,
basically all the other CocoViews work.
Now it's possible you'll
find some that don't.
If you do, please let us know,
write up bugs,
we'll try our best to make those work.
It's also possible we won't quite
be able to make all of them work.
There could potentially be some problems
that we just can't solve in our bridge,
and what we may have to do in those
cases is make some of those NSViews rev
to know that they're in a Carbon window
and behave a little bit differently,
potentially.
So if you do find problems,
let us know and we can take
those steps if we need to.
So there's a couple usage
limitations you need to know about.
The first is that once
you have an HICoco view,
the only thing that should be
embedded inside of it is an NSView.
Don't put any other HIViews in it.
It just won't work.
That HICoco view and the
Carbon compositing draw pipeline expect
there to just be an NSView inside.
Of course, that NSView could be a
hierarchy of other NSViews.
In fact, that's exactly what happens
in the WebKit view case,
right?
The WebKit view is potentially
other views and cells for text
editing and buttons and so forth.
So that's fine.
Just make sure that you don't put any
other HIViews in your HICoco view.
Now, Cocoa allows you to do a certain
amount of multi-threaded drawing,
but Carbon's drawing model is
inherently single-threaded.
Carbon cannot handle
drawing on multiple threads.
So if your Cocoa view that you want
to use draws on multiple threads,
that would be a usage limitation.
You won't be able to use
that with an HI Cocoa view,
and that's not something we can fix.
We have no plans to take Carbon's
entire compositing draw model
and making it multi-thread safe.
So before when I said if you want
to do state changes to the NSView,
you should call some of the state
change APIs in the HIView set,
and we propagate those as appropriate.
Don't do the reverse.
If you set the bounds on your NSView,
it's not pushed back up to the HIView.
It's still respected at the NSView level,
right?
You can make your NSView bigger,
just the HICocoView will be smaller
and therefore will clip your NSView.
So generally for those kinds
of state changes like bounds,
call the HIView API.
Don't call the NSView API.
We haven't wired up
accessibility yet in the seed.
This is something we definitely want
to do by the time Leopard ships.
In fact, we want to make the Carbon-Cocoa
accessibility integration story
a lot better in a lot of ways,
not just at the view level.
There are a lot of window integration
bugs as a result of bringing up
font panels and color pickers in
a Carbon app where it just doesn't
quite work right in accessibility.
So we want to smooth over
all those rough edges.
Another way we're really pushing the
Cocoa Carbon integration in Leopard is by
essentially gutting navigation services.
We scraped out all the
code underneath it,
kept the APIs in place,
and just rewrote those APIs on top
of the Cocoa NSOpenSavePanel APIs.
We did this mainly for two reasons.
One, it's going to make our own lives
easier in the long term because we
only have one code base to maintain.
But from a user perspective,
we get rid of all those horrible
interaction and parity problems between
the two different implementations
that behave very differently.
So we get rid of a lot
of bugs in the process.
And that lets our engineers
spend more time on doing
cool things in OpenSave like,
I don't know,
adding icon view and various other things
that are widely requested features.
So, since we basically reimplemented
the Nav Services APIs,
your apps, when they run on Leopard,
get the Cocoa OpenSave implementation
for free.
It just happens.
Now, that's the default,
but there are some caveats.
There are some ill-behaved
applications that make bad assumptions
about Nav Services dialogs.
They may assume that the
Nav Services dialog has a diddle and
the fourth item is the OK button,
and they try to
manipulate that OK button.
And in stranger situations,
they try to navigate down the
hierarchy to find the data browser
to change the way the data browser
acts and various other weird things.
Those apps already have a number of
different compatibility workarounds
put in place for them on the system
to maintain those legacy behaviors.
If your app has some of
those workarounds in place,
you're going to get the old
Navigation Services implementation.
So, if you are one of those apps,
what you want to do is - our
developer relations folks have tried
to contact you and let you know what
you need to change in your code.
Change that in your code,
deploy with a new version
in your application,
and you will get the Cocoa-based
OpenSave implementation for free.
Now, that said, even though you get the
Cocoa version for free,
you may want to do
some explicit adoption.
One cool thing we did is take
the NavDialog ref address.
That address really is just a pointer
to an NSA panel or an NSOpenPanel.
You can cast that to one of
those two types and start calling
Objective-C methods on it if you
want to trigger Cocoa functionality.
So that's one possible way you could
do the kinds of things you used to be
doing by hacking the Carbon version.
You can just now do it in a
clean way using the Cocoa APIs.
So I already talked a little bit
about application compatibility,
but there's a few more details.
We are going to add an opt-out
mechanism for the automatic usage of
the Cocoa OpenSave panel for Leopard.
So your application will be able to put
something into its bundle that says,
"I want the Carbon version for
compatibility." So you'll be
able to let us know if you find
problems that we haven't found.
If you do opt out, however,
you miss some big
pieces of functionality.
The Cocoa OpenSave panel is being
revved to support icon view.
It's being revved to support better
searching and various other cool things.
And we're not revving the
Carbon implementation and navigation
services to support those.
So if you opt out,
your users don't get any
of those cool features.
So, just to restate our
Cocoa integration story,
this is not a deprecation.
Your application will need to use
Objective-C to get at this functionality.
But the benefit is you'll get all
this cool stuff that's in Cocoa.
Now we know there's a little
bit of a religious war,
Carbon versus Cocoa,
on the mailing list and so forth.
Our stance internally - we work
right next door to the Cocoa team.
We're great friends with them,
we hang out with them in
social events and so forth.
And there's no animosity at our level.
We don't want there to be
animosity on the developer level.
What we want developers to
think of is that there aren't
Cocoa and Carbon applications.
There are Mac OS X applications.
And the best Mac OS X applications
are going to take advantage
of all the APIs on the system
wherever there are great APIs.
Don't artificially limit yourself
to one API set because you want to
be Cocoa or you want to be Carbon.
Just use the best APIs you can and
deliver the best user experience.
So one way you can start doing
that now in your applications is
if you're already on the path to
deliver a partially Cocoa-based
Carbon application in the future,
one thing you might start doing
is implement your custom content
as an NSView instead of an
HIView and leverage HICocoaView.
Embed your NSView in an
HICocoaView and deliver that
in your application on Leopard.
And that gives you a
leg up for the future.
Now you have an NSView in your
hands for when you eventually
do move that window to Cocoa.
So you'll be in great shape.
It's also very important to note that
this is a high priority task for us.
We need to make this rock solid in
order for there to be any adoption.
So any bugs you find,
even the most trivial bug that you
think we probably already know about,
file it anyway.
I don't mind getting
hundreds of duplicates.
What I want to make sure happens is we
deliver a rock solid implementation,
not something that was a little
flaky like the HIMovieView.
So please file those bugs.
[Transcript missing]
Thank you, Guy.
All right.
So that covers some of our
Cocoa integration technologies.
But we have been busy with a lot
of other changes in the toolbox
in the past year and a half or so.
And I'm going to go over some of
the big ticket items here that we've
been working on that we'd really
like you to take advantage of and be
able to adopt in your applications.
Here's a quick list of the
topics I'm going to cover here.
64-bit, of course,
is one of our really big
changes in the Leopard HI20.
We have a new API that we've provided
in the toolbox that's been covered
widely in the conference already so far.
And we do have 64-bit implementations
of all the HI Toolbox frameworks.
Resolution independence,
a technology that we
introduced first in Tiger,
and we're completing that in Leopard.
We have a new capability to
be able to handle Apple events
using Carbon event handlers,
which can be handy in
certain circumstances.
There's a new API that we provided
in the HI Object Manager called
HI Object Delegates.
We're enabling you to
embed HIViews inside menus,
which is something that's already been
used in a few places in the system,
and we're going to make it easier for
you to do that in your own applications.
We have new support for using
files to show image content
inside some of the standard views.
And finally, there's a new API called
TextInputSources that the
Text and Graphics group has done,
and that's going to be a replacement
for a number of deprecated APIs.
So the 64-bit HIToolbox.
I think you've probably heard a
lot of this if you've been going to
the other keynote sessions already.
But some of the reasons
why we're going to 64-bit,
obviously the industry as
a whole is going that way.
Windows Vista,
Windows XP have 64-bit versions, Linux,
Alaris.
The hardware is continuing to evolve.
We are shipping more and more memory
in our baseline configurations.
The new Xeon machines can go
up to 16 gigabytes of memory,
I think.
And there are performance advantages.
Especially in the x86 ABI,
if you compile your Intel application
using the 64-bit x86 ABI,
you can get improved
performance for your code.
And also just user demand.
As your users try to use
larger and larger data sets,
you are going to find some performance
advantages and your users are going to
want your applications to be 64-bit in
order to deal with those large data sets.
So we're going to be taking out a lot of
old legacy API in the 64-bit HIToolbox.
We're really using this as an opportunity
to clean up a lot of this old API that
came across from classic Mac OS.
So non-compositing mode is not
available at all in 64-bit HIToolbox.
Quick draw,
as has already been mentioned,
has been removed.
There's no support for CDEFs, for MDEFs,
or for WDEFs.
The FS spec type in the file
manager is no longer supported.
Pascal strings are also gone.
That's really, you know,
very legacy technology there.
And using Quick Draw Text or
the TextEditManager to draw
or edit your text are also not
supported in the 64-bit version.
So we're really focusing very tightly
on supporting those modern APIs that
we've been talking to you about
probably for the last five years
or so to get you moving on to these
modern set of programming interfaces.
So compositing mode is the
most significant example here,
and Quartz.
Your 64-bit toolbox application
must use compositing mode and
it must use Quartz to draw.
That's the only interface
we're going to support.
You must use custom HIViews
to draw your content.
That goes right along
with compositing mode.
You must use FSRefs or you can also
use CFURLRefs to identify your files.
You must use CFStrings or some other
similar type of Unicode-based string
API to contain your strings whenever
you're passing a string into the
toolbox to change the title of a window
or a control or anything like that.
The only text editing APIs would be MLTE.
The text drawing APIs would be ATSUI or
the new core text and core font APIs that
we're introducing here this year.
And we're also providing a number
of new APIs to replace some of
the APIs that we've removed.
So I'll talk briefly about some
of those a little bit later,
and we're going to have more
APIs introduced after the
developers conference that we
didn't have time to do yet.
I'll touch briefly on a few legacy
APIs that we are still providing.
The point here basically to
provide these is just to make your
lives easier when you're trying to
port your applications to 64-bit.
We're getting rid of a lot of things
that really don't make any sense at all,
but we are keeping some just
because we want to make your path
easier to get over to 64-bit,
and we don't want to throw up
arbitrary roadblocks in your path.
So here are some examples.
The classic event manager,
the event record type, wait next event,
etc.
are still supported if you need them.
Of course, we don't recommend that
you use any of these.
We highly recommend that you
use Carbon Events and not
the classic event manager,
but it's there if you need it.
The dialog manager is still supported.
Note that the dialog manager
only creates compositing windows,
though, in 64-bit since there are
no non-compositing windows.
The scrap manager is still supported.
We have a replacement for
that since Tiger or Panther,
I can't remember which,
Brian will tell me.
The pasteboard manager,
so we recommend you use
the pasteboard manager,
but the scrap manager
API is there as well.
So developer adoption for
64-bit is really pretty similar
to the original Carbon story.
The original Carbon story was if
you've been keeping up with us,
if you're using the Appearance Manager,
if you're using more modern APIs,
then it's easier.
If you're using Nav Services,
if you've already
converted to Nav Services,
then you don't have to get rid of
standard file in your application,
for example.
The 64-bit story is very similar.
If you've been keeping up with all
the APIs that we've been talking
about over the last few years,
then 64-bit is actually not that bad.
It's pretty easy to get a modern
application running in 64-bit mode.
We've done this with several apps,
and it's not too hard.
If you've got a lot of old
API usage in your application still,
if you're using non-compositing mode,
if you're using Quick Draw to draw,
if you're using FS Specs still,
which I hope you're not, but if you are,
you're going to have a lot of
work to do because all those old
APIs you have to take out first and
replace with the more modern APIs.
So,
I'm going to go ahead and get started.
So we've got some common types,
things defined in MacTypes.h
that are now 64-bit compatible.
Byte count, byte offset,
some other things.
Some of the core foundation types
have been made 64 bits wide.
So as you go through your code
to think about what do I need to
change to become 64-bit compatible,
think about using these
types in your code.
So, for example, don't use an int to
represent a byte count.
Declare your variable as type byte
count and then you'll automatically
go up to 64 bits when you're
compiling for a 64-bit target.
Some of the other standard types, UN32,
SN32, the obvious ones, well,
they say right there in the name,
I'm 32-bit, so that's where it still is.
Those are still 32 bits wide.
So that's another case where
you might want to think about.
I have a UN32 value here and
I'm using it to represent...
The size of this block of memory.
Well,
that might not be the right type to use.
If you're compiling for 64-bit,
you might want to change a UN32
variable into a byte count variable,
for example.
We've also declared a few new types.
Briefly, URefCon and SRefCon are two new
types that we've declared for use
with APIs and callback functions
that take RefCon parameters.
And the reason why we're doing
that is that in 32-bit mode...
Often these APIs and callback
functions took RefCon parameters
that were typed as maybe a long or an
unsigned long or something like that.
Or maybe they were even typed as a UN32.
Well, obviously,
if they're typed as a UN32,
that's not going to work in 64-bit mode
because a UN32 is still 32 bits wide.
And frequently with a RefCon,
you want to pass a pointer, let's say,
and the pointer needs
to scale up to 64 bits.
So we've defined some new types for
things that are RefCon parameters and
used them widely across the Toolbox API.
And that may cause you some compilation
issues when you go to adopt 64-bit
in your application because you may
need to change places where you are,
for example,
casting a pointer to a UN32 before
you pass it into an API as a RefCon.
You might want to change that
cast to a URefCon instead.
And that way you'll avoid truncating
the top 32 bits of your pointer.
Another type mentioned on this
slide is the CGFloat type.
And that is a type that is provided
by the Core Graphics framework.
In Core Graphics,
a lot of the APIs that take a
floating point value were previously
typed to take a float parameter.
And in 64 bits,
those parameters are all changed to take
a double parameter so that we get some
extra precision and resolution there.
So instead of going through and putting
ifdef's everywhere through the headers,
CoreGraphics is just
using the CGFloat type,
which in 32-bit mode is a float,
and in 64-bit mode is a double.
And you'll probably want to make
a similar change in your code.
Frequently, for example,
you might declare an array of
floating point values and then pass
that array into a Core Graphics API.
And you want to make sure that you
change the base type of that array to a
CGFloat instead of just a float because
when you pass that into Core Graphics,
CGFloat is going to be expecting
an array of doubles in 64-bit mode.
And that's what you better provide
or you're going to have some trouble.
So I'll go through some of the common
managers and point out a few gotchas
and some of the API changes that
we've made for each one of these.
And the Appearance Manager,
there is no Quick Draw, as we said.
So all of the Appearance
Manager APIs that used to draw into
a Quick Draw port or in some other
way depend on the presence of a port,
like the ones that would change
the background color of a port,
for example.
Those have gone.
There's no replacement for those.
There's no Quick Draw based
Appearance Manager drawing anymore.
But we do have the HITHeme API,
which we introduced a few releases ago.
And the HITHeme API uses
CGContext for everything.
So that's the one you want to use and
that's what you can adopt in both your
32-bit and your 64-bit applications.
One place where we don't have a
replacement yet that I'd like to
point out is KThemeCurrentPortFont.
It says right there in the
case that we're going to use
the KThemeCurrentPortFont.
It's a constant.
It depends on the current port.
Well, there is no current port.
So we're going to be introducing a
replacement for this concept that
probably passes in maybe a Cortext
font or something like that explicitly.
That's something that
we have not done yet,
but we will be doing it after the
seed and after the conference.
The Carbon Event Manager.
Back in 10.0,
we had this API called ToolboxObjects
that we provided to let you use
Carbon Events to subclass some of
the standard controls and windows.
And then around 10.2,
we came out with the HIObjectManager as
sort of a replacement for ToolboxObjects.
And in 64-bit mode, we're just taking out
ToolboxObjects entirely,
and the HIObject API is the
preferred and only way to create
custom Carbon Event-based objects
and to subclass existing objects.
So you want to use HIObjectRegister
subclass instead of using
the ToolboxObject API.
Another set of Carbon Events that's been
removed from 64-bit mode that I'll just
call out is the various KEventWindowClick
something or other region,
like KEventWindowClickDragRegion,
for example.
Those Carbon Events were all originally
designed for non-compositing mode.
And in fact, they've never been sent
for compositing windows.
So if you've moved your
application to compositing mode,
you've probably already figured this out,
that these event handlers for these
events just aren't being called.
In 64-bit, since there is no
non-compositing mode at all,
we're just taking these constants
out of the headers when you
compile for 64-bit targets.
So you may have previously been getting
by with the KEventWindowClickDrag.
You may have previously been getting
by with installing handlers for
them that were never called if
you were using compositing mode.
In 64-bit mode,
you'll actually get compilation
errors if you try to install an
event handler for one of these.
The Dialog Manager, as I mentioned,
is still there for compatibility
and make it a little bit easier
to port your applications over.
But it does always create
compositing windows.
Now this has some interesting
implications for your application.
Compositing windows are also going to
use the standard window event handler.
That means that the window event handler
is going to grab all the Carbon events
that go to that window before they
get passed back to the Dialog Manager.
So if you're passing in a modal
filter event to a modal dialog,
you're not going to see any of
the mouse downs or key downs or
any other events that you might
have expected to see there.
Those are all going to get picked up
by the standard window event handler.
Instead, your modal filter will
only get null events.
So if you need to actually handle
specific events in your dialog,
specific user input events,
you want to do that by installing
Carbon event handlers instead
of using a modal filter.
And that will work just
fine in 32-bit mode as well.
Thank you.
Another option that we're providing
here is a new flag that you can put
in your DLGX resource to specify
that you should get a compositing
dialog window even in 32-bit mode.
Previously, in 32-bit mode,
there was no way to create
a compositing dialog window.
And we're now providing that
capability so that if you want to
have the same source space that
works in both 32-bit and 64-bit,
we don't want to have to make you
branch your code and handle the
non-compositing case for 32-bit and
the compositing case for 64-bit.
So we're going to let you create
compositing dialog windows on both
sides if that's useful to you.
[Transcript missing]
The Tech Services Manager,
going all the way back to pre-Mac OS X,
the Tech Services Manager used to
send Apple events to communicate
between input methods and applications.
Starting in Mac OS X,
we introduced a suite of Carbon events,
which was the preferred way for
TSM to communicate with applications.
In 64-bit mode, that's the only way.
The Apple events are no longer sent.
So if you're using the TSM Apple events,
you need to switch off them and
use the Carbon events instead.
I mentioned we were introducing
some new API to replace some
of the API that we've removed.
A big chunk of the API that's gone,
of course, is Quickdraw.
And that includes some other
things such as the display
manager and the GD handle type.
So the modern replacement for all the
display manager and GD handle interfaces
is the Core Graphics Direct Display API.
So we've introduced a new
Carbon Event parameter type
called type CGDisplayID,
which is a CGDirectDisplayID.
And we're using that in a
number of Carbon Events that
used to take a GD handle.
Now you might think that this
could cause problems for existing
applications that are expecting to see
a GD handle in those Carbon Events,
but we have an automatic
coercion facility in 32-bit mode.
So that even though the
Carbon Event really contains
a CGDirectDisplayID,
if you add a new Carbon Event parameter
to the GD handle,
you can see that the GD handle
is not going to be a problem.
So we've introduced a new
Carbon Event parameter type
called type CGDisplayID,
which is a CGDirectDisplayID.
And we're using that in a
number of Carbon Events that
used to take a GD handle.
Now you might think that this
could cause problems for existing
applications that are expecting to see
a GD handle in those Carbon Events.
But even though the Carbon Event really
contains a CGDirectDisplayID,
if you ask for a GD handle,
we'll convert it to a GD handle
and give you that back.
So that's the compatibility
mode for 32-bit mode.
But for 64-bit mode,
there is no GD handle at all.
So for best compatibility with 64-bit,
you will want to make your application
use this type CGDisplayID explicitly
and explicitly be able to handle
getting a CGDirectDisplayID.
So that's the compatibility
mode for 32-bit.
mode for 32-bit mode.
So that's the compatibility
So that's the compatibility mode for
display ID back from these Carbon events.
Display Manager also provided an
API for registering notifications when
the display configuration changed.
And we are now providing a Carbon event,
which kind of wraps that functionality.
That's available in both
32-bit mode and 64-bit mode.
So that's
KEventSystemDisplayReconfigured,
and that'll be sent whenever
you get a display change.
There was also some Window Manager API,
which used to take a GD handle
or return a GD handle,
things like finding out which device
contained the largest portion of
a window or what the positioning
bounds on a particular display were
in which you could put a window.
And we have some new API that now
take a CD direct display ID instead.
A few other APIs here that kind of go
along with the removal of QuickDraw.
The old GetMouse API was return
coordinates relative to the current port.
Since there's no current port anymore,
we can't return
coordinates relative to it.
So we have a HIGetMousePosition API,
which explicitly takes a
coordinate space parameter.
So you can request the current mouse
position in the coordinate space
of a view or of a window or in two
types of global coordinate spaces.
And also TrackMouseLocation
used to return coordinates in
the space of the current port.
So again, we have a new HIView
TrackMouseLocation API,
and that will return you
coordinates in the coordinate
space of a particular view.
And it's specifically designed to be
used with HIView and compositing windows.
years.
So that finishes up my 64-bit
presentation and I'm going to hop
over to resolution independence.
If you were here just an
hour ago for Guy's session,
some of this will probably
be a bit of a review,
but I'm going to go over
it just for anyone else who
hasn't been here for that.
So resolution independence,
as hopefully you know,
is something that we introduced
in Tiger originally as a
developer-only feature,
just a way for you to start playing
around with it and to see how
well your applications worked.
We're finishing it off in Leopard and we
have some significant changes in Leopard.
We're at places where we're
improving the feature.
Most of the standard controls
are now using high resolution art
instead of the old bit mapped art.
We haven't finished this
with all the controls yet,
so certainly you'll see many places
where the standard controls still look
a bit blocky when you scale things up,
but we will have those done by
the time we finish with Leopard.
We do have some resolution
independent specific APIs.
The HIGetMousePosition API that I just
mentioned a minute ago is one of them.
That API lets you choose the
coordinate space in which you
get back the mouse position,
so you could get back a mouse
position either in pixels,
if you need absolute
pixel-specific coordinates,
or you can also get back the
mouse position in points,
which is basically pixels divided
through by the scaling factor.
We will,
after the seed and after the conference,
be introducing new APIs that allow
you to position and size windows and
other objects at the global level
using explicit HIRect parameters,
for example,
that have floating point coordinates.
All the existing
WindowManager APIs in Carbon,
unlike Cocoa,
in Carbon the APIs all assume that the
coordinates are specified in points,
basically.
So that's going to be the default no
matter what mode you're running in,
and we'll have new APIs that if
you need to explicitly specify
window coordinates in pixels,
you'll need to adopt those new APIs.
I'm also going to talk a little bit
about policies for art and cursors.
And finally,
something that Guy mentioned,
last session,
is that the application scaled mode
that we talked about last year,
we've realized it just
doesn't make much sense.
It's too hard for us
to implement properly,
and it doesn't fit in with the
whole direction that we want you
all to go of using compositing mode.
So this application scaled mode,
which allowed QuickDraw-based
applications to scale
their own window content,
is no longer supported in Leopard,
and after the developers' conference,
we're actually just going to remove the
constants from the header files entirely.
So you'll still see them there right now,
but that's going to be
gone by the time we ship.
So that leads me into the scaling
modes that we do still support.
And there are two.
The first and the preferred one,
the one that we really
want you all to adopt,
is called framework scaled mode.
And this is the mode that
you can get if you're using
compositing mode in your Windows.
In this mode, the toolbox automatically
provides a transform,
a core graphics FEN transform on
your CG context that's passed to your
drawing event so that when you draw,
your drawing automatically
gets scaled up according to the
user interface scaling factor.
So this gives you really nice,
crisp text because your text is being
scaled up by the Windows server.
And if you can revise your artwork,
your content to have
multiple resolutions,
then this will also give you nice,
crisp artwork as well.
It does require compositing
mode and quartz drawing.
So in case you haven't figured it out,
please use compositing mode.
Please draw with quartz.
So this is the framework
that we do still support.
And the other mode is magnified mode.
And this is the default that you will
get running an unmodified application.
And this includes unmodified
compositing mode applications.
So even if you're already
using compositing mode,
you still get magnified by default
because there might be cases where
you still need to make changes to
your application to really work well.
So in the magnified mode,
the window buffer that your
windows draw into is just exactly
the same size as the coordinates
in points that you're passing in.
And then the Windows server just
magnifies that content up on the
screen when it actually gets displayed.
So this gives you blurry
text and blurry graphics,
but it does maintain compatibility
with all the applications
that are already out there,
especially those that
are using Quick Draw.
Another important point to note
is that you can mix both of
these modes in your application.
You don't have to convert
everything all at once.
You can do this one window at a time.
You can take an easy window and
convert it to compositing mode,
try it out, see how that goes,
turn on framework scaling for that mode,
and then as you gain more experience with
compositing mode and framework scaling,
you can gradually move up
to the more complex windows
and convert those as well.
So the steps to move to a framework
scaled window user interface.
Compositing mode is the very first one,
of course, and also using courts.
And then once you've done that,
it's pretty simple.
There's just a pop-up menu in IB when
you create your window in your Nib that
specifies use this framework scale mode.
You can also do this explicitly by
passing in the framework scaled window
attribute when you create the window.
And then once you've done that,
something to think about as you
work through your application code
is that we define two different
coordinate spaces in the toolbox.
One of them is pixel-based,
and the other one is what we're
calling a 72 DPI coordinate space,
although that's a bit of a
misnomer because it isn't really
a 72 DPI coordinate space.
But think of it as a
virtual coordinate space.
It's the coordinate space that you get if
you take screen pixels and you divide it
through by the resolution scaling factor.
So this is the compatibility coordinate
space that all the existing APIs expect.
If you have an API that doesn't take
an explicit parameter to specify
which coordinate space you want,
then it's going to expect
virtual coordinates.
That maintains compatibility
with all of your existing code.
You also have a screen pixel coordinate
space which you will be able to adopt
explicitly if that's appropriate.
And you can go back and forth between
these two coordinate spaces using
several APIs that we introduced in Tiger.
We have APIs for converting points,
sizes, and rectangles back and forth
between different coordinate spaces.
And finally,
there are a number of Carbon Events that
have parameters that represent
global sizes or positions.
Something like a K event
window bounds change,
for example, as the bounds of a window.
Now we have not fully resolved
this issue in the toolbox yet,
but this is something we're
going to be moving towards
after the developers conference.
We have some new Carbon Event parameters
which explicitly specify the
semantics that we're going
to be using in the toolbox.
And we're going to be using
the same parameters that are
defined by that parameter.
So, for example, if we have an HIRect,
that HIRect could
represent screen pixels,
or it could represent
virtual coordinates.
And you don't know a priori
which one it's going to be.
So the policy that we've
defined is that by default,
all the existing constants for
specifying event parameter types
represent virtual coordinates.
But you will also be able to explicitly
ask the Carbon Event Manager to
translate from virtual coordinates
to pixel coordinates by using
some new event parameter types.
For example, type HIRectScreenPixel.
If you pass that into GetEventParameter,
then the Carbon Event Manager will
automatically translate the coordinates
from virtual coordinates to screen pixel
coordinates and pass them out to you.
And in fact,
probably what we'll wind up doing is
we'll put the highest resolution data,
which is basically the screen
pixel coordinate values,
into the Carbon Event,
and then we'll translate the other
direction for the compatibility case.
One of the issues that you will
definitely need to deal with to
make your application resolution
independent is creating a lot of
new artwork that is scaled up to
either a 2x or a 4x scale factor
and using that in your application.
So there are a couple
of ways you can do it.
This slide talks about two of the
harder ways and I'm going to talk
about an easier way a little bit later.
So if you are explicitly
passing a CG image ref,
for example,
into a standard view to specify the
image that that view should display,
well,
you can use ImageIO to get a CG image
source ref from your file on disk that
has your multiple resolutions of artwork,
parse through the various
resolutions that are available,
compare it to the scaling mode for
the window and the scale factor,
and figure out which resolution
is the best one for you to use,
and then you can send that particular
CG image ref into the view.
That's a little complicated.
But it's perfectly straightforward.
Another option, and going along with our
Cocoa integration capabilities,
is that you will in the future,
before we ship Leopard,
be able to pass an NSImage into
the standard views and use that
to specify the image content.
And in that case,
NSImage is going to automatically
figure out which particular resolution
you're going to be able to support.
That's not provided
yet in the seed build,
but that's something we're
going to be working on.
The third option,
which is going to be a little bit easier,
which is going to be the easiest one,
and which I'll talk about in a
little bit more detail later,
is that we are providing new
capabilities to pass the path or just
the name of a file in your resources
directory right into a view and say,
you know,
grab the file from this location on
disk and just do the right thing.
And that's probably going to be the best
solution for the vast majority of people.
You'll just create your content,
stick it in your resources directory,
pass in the path or the file name,
and we'll figure out the right
resolution to use automatically.
automatically.
Another issue that comes up pretty
frequently is resolution independent
cursors and how do you specify
different types of cursor data.
Our preferred solution
here is to use NSCursor.
NSCursor already has the
right support for this.
There isn't really a lot
of value in us creating yet
another API to wrap a Cocoa API.
So we are going to point you
right at NSCursor and just suggest
that you use NSCursor itself.
NSCursor also supports 64-bit.
We have a sample up on
developer.apple.com for
showing how to use NSCursor in
a Carbon application already.
We will be talking about this more in
the Cocoa for Carbon Developer session.
Please do attend that one as well.
So those were our two biggest features
for Leopard and the Toolbox that was
64-bit and resolution independence.
I'm going to run over a few
smaller features that we've
added as well along the way.
And the first one is handling
Apple events using Carbon Event Handlers.
This is actually something that
I think it's come up several times
on the Carbon development list.
Someone will post, "Well,
I installed my Apple Event Handler
using GetEventHandler,
but it's never being called.
Why's that?" That's
because it doesn't work.
But now it does.
We've hooked up some interfaces
into the Apple Event Manager so
that you can actually call the
regular InstallEventHandler
API in the Carbon Event Manager.
And you can pass in a regular
Carbon Event Handler callback function
and use that to receive Apple events.
In this case,
you would be installing your
Event Handler on the application target.
That's the only place that
the event is going to be sent.
And when your application or
when run application event loop
calls a process Apple event,
the Apple event manager will dispatch
the Apple event through the normal
Apple event dispatching handlers,
but before it does that,
it gives it back to the toolbox to
give us a chance to send it through
the Carbon event dispatching chain.
So that's when your handler is going to
be called inside AEProcess Apple event.
And all you need to do is just pass
the Apple event class and kind into
install event handler when you're
registering your Carbon event handler,
and from then on it's basically
like you just have a regular
Carbon event to handle.
So for example,
you can use getEvent parameter
on the event ref that your
Carbon event handler receives,
and that will actually pull event
parameters out of the Apple event
that is backing up the Carbon event.
There are some caveats here.
If you are accessing an array
parameter from the Apple event,
let's say you are handling
the Open Document Apple event,
and that has a parameter
that is an AE list.
It's a list of AE desks,
and each one contains an FSRef,
let's say.
In that case,
what you really want to do is you
want to pass typeAelist in your
first call to getEvent parameter
to get out an AE desk list,
and then you can use the Apple event
manager APIs to pull out each
AE desk from that AE list.
And in that case,
you also need to release
the AE desk list afterwards.
There are probably cases where
you're going to need to get
the original Apple event or
the original reply Apple event.
So we do also provide some special
event parameters to allow you
to get that information out.
I mentioned here the event
parameter name AEVT together with
parameter type AppleEvent will get
you the original Apple event that
was backing up the Carbon event.
And you can do the same
thing for the reply.
And if you need to put data back
into the reply Apple event right now,
you cannot use setEvent parameter.
That's something I'm
going to implement later,
but it's not hooked up yet.
So in that case,
you want to get the reply Apple event
out of the Carbon event and then just
set data directly into the reply.
So we're going to put a sample app up
on developer.apple.com after the seed
that shows how to use some of this stuff.
HiObjectDelegates is another
API that we've added that's
part of the HiObjectManager.
And it's a little bit reminiscent
of some other frameworks.
It's a way to add extra behavior
onto an existing HiObject without
actually subclassing it or installing
a bunch of event handlers yourself.
So essentially the idea is
that you have one HiObject,
which we call the target HiObject,
and a second HiObject,
which we call the delegate.
You install the delegate onto the target.
And then the delegate HiObject
receives all the Carbon events that
are sent to the target HiObject.
And so this has some nice advantages
over some of the older ways of doing it.
Obviously the delegate HI object
being an object itself combines all
of its data and handlers in one place,
provides a nice bit of packaging there.
If you are a client of a delegate,
you don't have to know
exactly which event handlers
the delegate is installing.
All you need to do is install
the delegate and you're done.
Finally,
the delegate has the ability to have
some control over which order its
event handlers are called relative to
the target object's event handlers.
So you can install the delegate
either before or after the handlers
that are on the target object.
And that guarantees, for example,
that the delegate's handlers
will always be called before
the target object's handlers.
So we're going to use this
capability to try to provide some
standard delegate objects for
you to use in your application.
We know that a lot of you would
like to bring some degree of
Cocoa technology into your application,
but we don't want to make you rewrite
your entire application in Cocoa.
So what we would like to do is allow
you to sort of drop little bits of
functionality into your app very
simply without having to make you
modify the entire application to do it.
So we're going to use this
specifically for some bridges
between Carbon and Cocoa.
Before I go into that,
I'm going to run briefly over the API.
It's really a very simple API.
There's just an add delegate
API to install the delegate
on the target object,
a removal API to remove it, and finally,
if you are writing code that's inside
the delegate event handler and you
want to know what the target object is,
there's an HI object get event
handler object API which will return
you the original target object.
Thank you.
So let's see here.
I'm going to do a quick little
demo of how this capability
is used in the toolbox.
And we have a demo machine
with the Intel up here.
Let's see, we can close this project.
So I have a basic little
Carbon application here.
And when I run this Carbon application,
Here we have just a little field,
a little edit Unicode text field,
and nothing special about it.
It accepts all sorts of
characters being typed into it.
But maybe I want to modify my
application so that this field
only accepts numeric text input.
Well, I could do that.
I could write some Carbon Event Handlers
to handle the various Carbon Events that
allow you to filter text input
and write all the necessary
formatting and analysis code.
But it turns out that Cocoa already
has this really handy little
NSNumericFormatter class.
And so what we've done in the toolbox
is we've implemented a delegate that
can be installed on a text field that
uses the NSNumericFormatter class.
And it uses it to determine
whether the text being edited
is actually in a numeric format.
So I'm going to enable a
little bit of code here.
What we're doing here,
first we're just finding the
Edit Text field right there.
I'm going to create the delegate
object using this class ID here.
Currently we don't have any
header files that define the
delegates we're providing,
but we will be providing
those header files later.
I'll add the delegate
to the Edit Text field,
release the delegate since it's been
retained by HIObjectAddDelegate,
rebuild.
Thank you.
I need #F1.
All right.
F1.
Rebuild again.
Let's try this now.
Now we can see that I'm typing
on the ASCII characters here.
There's nothing coming in,
but if I type on the numeric ones,
then we can get that.
I can only insert a single period
because otherwise it would not
be using the correct format.
So that's an easy way to introduce
some Cocoa technology right into your
application without having to modify your
application to use Cocoa in a big way.
Now let's go back to the slides.
So the next thing I want to talk
about here is menu item views.
This is the ability to embed
an HIView directly into a menu.
You're already seeing this in the
operating system in a number of places.
You see it in the finder where
it has its label color picker.
You see it in the new spotlight help menu
where we have an edit field right in the
help menu that lets you type into it.
And this is also being provided via
AppKit via a similar AppKit API.
So the menu manager in this case is going
to automatically create your HIView.
It's going to automatically
position and resize it.
It will forward accessibility
requests into your view,
so your view is considered to be
an accessible child of the menu.
And it automatically handles
keyboard focus as well.
And in this case it's really
simple to adopt this because you
don't have to do anything special
in your HIView to enable it.
You basically just implement the
getOptimalBounds Carbon event
if you aren't already,
so that the menu manager knows
how big your view wants to be.
And then the menu manager
takes care of the rest.
Finally, if your view needs to resize
while the menu is open,
you can also send this new
Carbon event we've defined,
kEventControlOptimalBoundsChanged,
and the menu manager will pick that
up and resize the menu automatically.
Again, this is a pretty simple API.
The interesting thing here is
that you don't actually pass
an HIView instance itself in to
specify the HIView for a menu.
You pass the HIView.
And then you can see that
the view is not visible.
And that's because the menu manager may
need to create multiple instances of
your view if the menu gets displayed,
say,
as both a pulldown menu and a popup menu.
You might need to find the
view -- find the menu item that
contains a view at runtime.
You can do that with HIView
getting closing menu item.
And you might need to cancel
menu tracking explicitly.
And we have HIView cancel
menu tracking for that case.
So let's do another
quick demo of this one.
Back to the Intel machine.
So again, this is a very simple
standard Carbon application.
Looking in the File menu here,
note that there's nothing unusual
about this particular menu.
It's just exactly as it
would be in a basic template.
This time, let's do this first.
Here's a little bit of code to
enable using a menu item view
for the Page Setup menu item.
First, I'll find the Page Setup item.
Now I'm going to create the
initialization event that's
going to be used by the view
I'm going to put in the menu.
And in this case I'm just going to set an
event parameter in there that specifies
the title for that particular view.
Then I'm going to make
that view use the checkbox.
Make that menu item
use the checkbox view.
So now, when I run this application,
The menu manager will
automatically replace the page
setup item with a checkbox.
And this is fully enabled.
You can click on it.
You can also use the arrow keys to go
up and down and that will put focus
on it and then I can use the keyboard
to enable and disable that particular
check and uncheck that particular item.
So that is something that you may find
useful in your applications as well.
Okay, back to slides.
Something I touched on
earlier is the ability to have
file-based image view content.
That's the capability to pass in
the path or the name of a particular
file on disk and then the toolbox
will automatically load that file
and display it in a standard view.
So this is supported by a
bunch of the standard views
already such as the push button,
the bevel button, and quite a few others.
It's not supported in all of
them but we're getting there.
It's also important for resolution
independence because you'll be able
to pass in the path to a file that
has multiple resolutions inside it and
then the toolbox will automatically
pick the best resolution for display
given the current scaling factor.
That particular aspect of this
feature is not yet supported in
the developer's conference seed
but we will be implementing that
after the developer's conference.
And we're also planning some support
here for passing in NSImages.
Finally, a brief mention of the
Text Input Sources API.
This is a new API that is meant
for handling various types of input
sources such as text input methods,
palettes such as character palette,
and also ink.
And there's a bunch of APIs that
are being deprecated in Leopard
including parts of the script manager,
the keyboard layout manager,
and parts of the text services manager.
And the Text Input Sources API is
designed to replace all of those.
So there's an entire
session talking about this.
If you deal with text input in your
application in a very detailed fashion
or if you write text input methods,
you definitely want to
go see this session.